# A Call to Participate in the Next-Generation International Development Funding

Today, we live in an unbalanced world where some people’s biggest aspiration is being able to wake up the next day because of the chaos and terror that surrounds them, for others its being able to eat at least once a day while there are those who even wish they were never born. The globalization of the world has created more platforms for people like these who are victims of natural disaster, civil unrest, war or poverty, to receive assistance from world governments, and other passionate individuals or organizations. This has led to the creation of governing bodies and organizations like UNICEF, who are responsible for managing and controlling humanitarian aids.

However, just like most centralised structure, the politics and bureaucracies of these structures have limited the ability of humanitarian efforts to truly help these people in need. The problem of transparency and accountability is destroying the reputation of well-meaning humanitarian endeavours as certain people exploit the systems and donated resources for their own good. There are also existing administrative problems especially when dealing with highly demanding situations as it is increasingly difficult to find cost effective solutions for managing data and funding allocation.

There are some existing blockchain projects in this field like UNICEF’s trial for blockchain start-up projects, but most of these solutions are still being developed by centralized bodies who are being governed by the need to remain afloat with existing technologies and not a proper acceptance of the social capabilities that Blockchain possesses. Hence, there is a great need for us to create a completely decentralized solution that can improve the existing structures and help more people around the world to get more help.

This proposed blockchain project would be designed to enhance the co-ordination of aid delivery and tracking supply chain in humanitarian response. It would also be used for information management, management of crowdfunding, cash-transfer programming and boosting humanitarian financing. The blockchain enabled solution would also provide a more sustainable and reliable remedy to existing challenges in humanitarian assistance such as transparency and accountability, two major areas that have become in dire need of improved structures.

The project would also significantly address the existing humanitarian funding gap. This would be a huge boost for worldwide actions towards social good as the funding gap is presently being considered a major global problem. It would do this by improving the overall efficiency of money transfer processes.

There is also a significant opportunity to help the world in Asia and the pacific region. These parts of the world have become centers of attention for humanitarian agencies because they are responsible for 40% of all-natural disasters and make up 84% of people affected by natural disasters worldwide. Therefore, in these regions, there is usually a requirement for humanitarian responses of large scale distribution of goods and cash-based programs in short periods of time. This is an immense potential to use blockchain for executing smart contracts. Smart contracts can really improve humanitarian responses in these regions by helping them to anticipate the numbers of people affected from potential disaster, how many people will be displaced, and calculate how many goods and services need to be delivered. Hence, the Blockchain project can be useful in the reliable and speedy provision of relief, connecting suppliers of clean drinking water with helicopter pilots and scheduling deliveries at specific locations within certain timeframes.

Finally, the area of identity is one where this blockchain enabled solution can once again make humanitarian efforts more effective. With Blockchain, digital IDs – that cannot be altered – can be created for these refugees, asylum seekers, and other vulnerable groups in the Asia and Pacific region, who often do not have legal documents ore in other cases have unfortunately misplaced them while running or seeking for a better life. I believe the possibility of issuing this ID and the potential of allowing the privacy of these refugees to be respected as explained above, are actually significant areas where blockchain technology can drastically improve humanitarian aids because it goes beyond the usual efforts of providing for these people with reliefs or empowerment, but also enables them to feel like equal citizens, just like you and I.

# A call to Build Together

Blockchain technology is not just another advancement in modern tech. It is a force for social change and an instrument for saving the world from the present problems of social inequalities and unfairness that plagues it. Just how solutions like Bitcoin were invented by people who knew they a responsibility to liberate the world, this proposed blockchain platform is a call to become partakers of history and major pioneers of a new system that would enable anyone in the world receive humanitarian aid under a transparent, accountable and efficient system. With this system, anyone in the world can make donations to people in need of aids and would be certain they are doing so through and efficient and trustless system.

This project has no leader, it is a transparent and decentralized project. If you are a developer or whatever relevant to achieving this and would like to be among the pioneers of a solution that would make the lives of others better, then contribute. 
